Eternal Champion | Moorcock's Multiverse Wikia | Fandom
Advertisement
Skip to content
Eternal Champion by Boris Vallejo
The Eternal Champion is a being that exists in different forms throughout the Multiverse. The Champion exists to uphold the Cosmic Balance, and could even be said to be an aspect or reflection of the Balance.
Whenever there is an imbalance of Law or Chaos in the Multiverse, an aspect of the Champion will be born to set the scales right again.
While some incarnations of the Champion fight for Law, and others fight for Chaos, all fight for the Balance, whether they know it or not.
The Eternal Champion always bears an aspect of the Black Sword as his or her weapon, though it may not always manifest as a sword.
Most of the time, the Champion is unaware of his true nature and lives his life knowing nothing of his destiny until he is swept up in it. The fate of the Champion is a fell doom indeed, for the Champion can never rest, never truly die, and never truly love.
It is possible for multiple aspects of the Champion to exist in the same universe, though it is dangerous and risks damaging the Multiverse. In these cases, the individual Champions can fuse together into one composite being. All aspects of the Champion remember their past (and possibly future) incarnations subconsciously, in dreams and nightmares. Some aspects remember them consciously, which makes them either extremely adept at surviving in the Multiverse, or borderline insane.
The Eternal Champion's tale is almost always a tragic one.
Michael Moorcock Discusses the Multiverse and the Eternal Champions
Aspects of the Champion[]
Alerik
Alivale
Konrad Arflane
Artos the Celt
Asquiol of Pompeii
Aubec of Kaneloon, Earl of Malador
Oswald Bastable
Eric Beck
Emmanuel Bloom
Brian
Clen of Clen-Gar, the third identity assumed by John Daker
Jherek Carnelian
Jerry Cornelius, a.k.a, Jerry Cornell from Moorcock's "Chinese Agent" short story and Captain Cornelius in Moorcock's novel Doctor Who: The Coming of the Terraphiles
John Daker, the one aspect of the Champion who remembers his previous lives
The Doctor, stated in Moorcock's novel Doctor Who: The Coming of the Terraphiles
Elric of Melniboné
Lord Erekosë, the first identity assumed by John Daker
Prince Flamadin, the fourth identity assumed by John Daker
Franik
Goldberg
Duke Dorian Hawkmoon
Ilanth
Ilian of Garathorm
Karl Glogauer, who turns out to be the real man behind the messianic figure of Jesus Christ (note also how some other incarnations bear the initials J.C.)
Corum Jhaelen Irsei, an anagram of "Jeremiah Cornelius", a.k.a. Corum Llaw Ereint
Michael Kane, Kane of Old Mars
Jack Karaquazian
Klan the Spoiler
Mejink-La-Kos
Clovis Marca, retconned to Clovis Becker in "The Shores of Death"
M'v Okom Sebpt O'Riley, Gunholder of the Qui Lors Ventures
Oshbek-Uy
Pournachas
Alan Powys, retconned to Alain Von Bek in "The Shores of Death"
Colonel Pyat
Rackhir the Red Archer
Roland, a paladin of Charlemagne
Ryan
The "Scar-Faced Brooder" from Michael Moorcock's The Time Dweller: One of the earliest incarnations of the Eternal Champion, but set in Earth's final years
Shaleen
Count Urlik Skarsol, the second identity assumed by John Daker
Sojan the Swordsman
Ulysses
Umpata
Ghardas Valabasian, Conqueror of the Distant Suns
Manfred Von Bek
Count Renark Von Bek
Ulric Von Bek
Ulrich Von Bek
Graf Ulrich von Bek
White Crow, an avatar of Elric
Count Zenith the Albino
Gallery[]
Prince Corum, Elric of Melniboné, Eric Beck, and Dorian HawkmoonThe Warriors at the End of TimeMany thousands of Champions gatheredThe Four who are One, a combined aspect of the ChampionThree Who are one, comprised of Elric, Corum and Hawkmoon in Elric: The Balance lostCount Zenith, Sir Seaton Begg, and Jerry CorneliusEternal Champion by Frank FrazettaThe Eternal Champion, the Black Sword and the Eternal ConsortAspects of the Champion attacking the forces of Law and ChaosDifferent aspects of the Champion
Trivia[]
American Epic Heavy/Power Metal band Eternal Champion is named after the Eternal Champion.
Advertisement