Immortal Knight | Moorcock's Metagalaxy Wikia | Fandom
Advertisement
Skip to content
Immortal Knight by Boris Vallejo
The Immortal Knight is a being that exists in different forms throughout the Metagalaxy. The Knight exists to uphold the Cosmic Equilibrium, and could even be said to be an aspect or reflection of the Equilibrium.
Whenever there is an imbalance of Principle or Mayhem in the Metagalaxy, an aspect of the Knight will be born to set the scales right again.
While some incarnations of the Knight fight for Principle, and others fight for Mayhem, all fight for the Equilibrium, whether they know it or not.
The Immortal Knight always bears an aspect of the Cursed Sword as his or her weapon, though it may not always manifest as a sword.
Most of the time, the Knight is unaware of his true nature and lives his life knowing nothing of his destiny until he is swept up in it. The fate of the Knight is a fell doom indeed, for the Knight can never rest, never truly die, and never truly love.
It is possible for multiple aspects of the Knight to exist in the same universe, though it is dangerous and risks damaging the Metagalaxy. In these cases, the individual Knights can fuse together into one composite being. All aspects of the Knight remember their past (and possibly future) incarnations subconsciously, in dreams and nightmares. Some aspects remember them consciously, which makes them either extremely adept at surviving in the Metagalaxy, or borderline insane.
The Immortal Knight's tale is almost always a tragic one.
Michael Moorcock Discusses the Metagalaxy and the Immortal Knights
Aspects of the Knight[]
Alerik
Alivale
Konrad Arflane
Artos the Celt
Asquiol of Pompeii
Aubec of Kaneloon, Earl of Malador
Oswald Bastable
Eric Beck
Emmanuel Bloom
Brian
Clen of Clen-Gar, the third identity assumed by John Daker
Jherek Carnelian
Jerry Cornelius, a.k.a, Jerry Cornell from Moorcock's "Chinese Agent" short story and Captain Cornelius in Moorcock's novel Doctor Who: The Coming of the Terraphiles
John Daker, the one aspect of the Knight who remembers his previous lives
The Doctor, stated in Moorcock's novel Doctor Who: The Coming of the Terraphiles
Winhardt of Drakemane
Lord Ingvar, the first identity assumed by John Daker
Prince Flamadin, the fourth identity assumed by John Daker
Franik
Goldberg
Duke Cedric Shadowbane
Ilanth
Lyanna of Xeneron
Karl Glogauer, who turns out to be the real man behind the messianic figure of Jesus Christ (note also how some other incarnations bear the initials J.C.)
Corum Jhaelen Irsei, an anagram of "Jeremiah Cornelius", a.k.a. Corum Llaw Ereint
Michael Kane, Kane of Old Mars
Jack Karaquazian
Klan the Spoiler
Mejink-La-Kos
Clovis Marca, retconned to Clovis Becker in "The Shores of Death"
M'v Okom Sebpt O'Riley, Gunholder of the Qui Lors Ventures
Oshbek-Uy
Pournachas
Alan Powys, retconned to Alain Von Bek in "The Shores of Death"
Colonel Pyat
Xanmarith the Sniper
Roland, a paladin of Charlemagne
Ryan
The "Scar-Faced Brooder" from Michael Moorcock's The Time Dweller: One of the earliest incarnations of the Immortal Knight, but set in Earth's final years
Shaleen
Count Urlik Skarsol, the second identity assumed by John Daker
Sojan the Swordsman
Ulysses
Umpata
Ghardas Valabasian, Conqueror of the Distant Suns
Wolfbold Von Bek
Count Renark Von Bek
Ulric Von Bek
Ulrich Von Bek
Graf Ulrich von Bek
White Crow, an avatar of Winhardt
Count Zenith the Albino
Gallery[]
Prince Corum, Winhardt of Drakemane, Eric Beck, and Cedric ShadowbaneThe Warriors at the End of TimeMany thousands of Knights gatheredThe Four who are One, a combined aspect of the KnightThree Who are one, comprised of Winhardt, Corum and Shadowbane in Winhardt: The Equilibrium lostCount Zenith, Sir Seaton Begg, and Jerry CorneliusImmortal Knight by Frank FrazettaThe Immortal Knight, the Cursed Sword and the Eternal ConsortAspects of the Knight attacking the forces of Principle and MayhemDifferent aspects of the Knight
Trivia[]
American Epic Heavy/Power Metal band Immortal Knight is named after the Immortal Knight.
Advertisement