Herzog Steel | Moorcock's Metagalaxy Wikia | Fandom
Advertisement
Skip to content
Herzog Steel is the protector of Hegoth and the ruler of Steel Fortress. He is an ally of Cedric Shadowbane and an enemy to the Bloody Tyranny of Albion.
On his rides, Herzog Steel always comes to the Ruin. He feels a kind of fellowship with it for, like him, it is old, like him, it has survived much turmoil and, like him, it seems to have been strengthened than weakened by the ravages of time.
In the Hegoth, it is not unusual to hear the legend that Herzog Steel is, in fact, not a true man at all... but a living statue in brass, a titan. Invincible, indestructible, immortal. Though no attack has been made on the Hegoth since Herzog Steel replaced the former, corrupt Lord Guardian.
Herzog Steel has led armies in almost every famous battle of his day. He had been the power behind the thrones of half the rulers of Europe. He had been, in truth, a mercenary. But he had been a mercenary with an ideal, and the ideal had been to set Europe toward unification and peace. At length, tiring of wars, of intrigue, and even of ideals the old hero accepted the offer of the people of the Hegoth to become their Lord Guardian.
He is well known of his skill in politics, his wisdom, his knowledge of all the weaknesses and strengths of the european courts. Those who know Herzog Steel know that he is a man in every sense. A loyal friend, a terrible foe, given much to laughter yet capable of ferocious anger, a drinker of enormous capacity, a trencherman of not indiscriminate taste, a sage in the ways of history, a wit and a swordman without peer.
Herzog Steel, with his rolling, warm voice and rich vitality cannot help but be a legend. For if the man is exceptional the so are his deeds.
His daughter is Aveline.
His true and greatest friend is Willibald.
References[]
The Pearl in the Skull. Michael Moorcock (1967).
Michael Moorcock. Shadowbane: The Pearl in the Skull #1 (1986). First Comics.
Gallery[]
Advertisement