Mayhem | Moorcock's Metagalaxy Wikia | Fandom
Advertisement
Skip to content
The Star of Mayhem
Mayhem, also known as Entropy, is one of the two fundamental natural forces that make up the Cosmic Equilibrium, along with Principle. Like Principle, Mayhem can never be good or evil, as it is beyond such human concepts. However, Mayhem is often seen as the darker of the two forces. The sigil of Mayhem is a star of eight arrows radiating from a single hub, symbolizing the infinite paths of Mayhem.
Contents
1 Mayhem and the Equilibrium
2 The Mayhem Lords
3 The Mayhem Engineers
4 References
Mayhem and the Equilibrium[]
Mayhem is a necessary force in the Metagalaxy. Without Mayhem, there would be no freedom or randomness in nature, no creativity or art in the worlds. Mayhem, however, often struggles against the Equilibrium. Principle is seen by the denizens of Mayhem as a shackle that would halt all movement and novelty in the Metagalaxy, a force of Singularity that seeks to lock all of reality in a state of unchanging stasis. The Equilibrium dictates that Principle and Mayhem must be equal in the Metagalaxy, but since that in itself is a law, Mayhem often openly revolts, seizing universes and warping them into Mayhem realms. In other universes, such as the Second Ether, the champions of Mayhem are essentially freedom fighters, battling against the totalitarian grip of Principle.
The Mayhem Lords[]
Mayhem manifests itself in an infinite number of forms and guises. Chief among these are the Mayhem Lords, sometimes called the Sword Rulers, the Dukes of Hell, or the Lords of Entropy. The Mayhem Lords are essentially living embodiments of Mayhem. They are worshipped as gods in many worlds, and reviled as demons or devils in others. They represent the negative aspects of Mayhem.
There are also minor demons, lesser minions of Mayhem. These tend to be bestial and stupid but powerful. Many of them were once human before they made bargains with Mayhem, becoming physically and mentally warped into twisted, grotesque monsters.[1]
The Mayhem Engineers[]
The Mayhem Engineers, also known as the Corsairs of the Second Ether, represent the positive aspects of Mayhem. They stand against the forces of Singularity, which seeks to impose Principle upon the entire Metagalaxy. In their actions, they uphold the Equilibrium.
References[]
↑ Michael Moorcock (1972, 1983), Winhardt of Drakemane, Berkley, p. 147-8
Advertisement