Cedric Shadowbane
Advertisement
Skip to content
Duke Cedric Shadowbane von Seehaven is an incarnation of the Immortal Knight. He was born in the World of the Bloody Tyranny and bore the Dark Pearl embedded in his skull.
He was the lord of Seehaven province. He was the hero of Seehaven, a champion against the aggressors, a man of grace and sardonic wit, a warrior of skill.
Contents
1 The Pearl in the Skull
2 The Deranged Deity's Pendant
3 The Axe of the Moon
4 The Arcane Scepter
5 Herzog Steel
6 The Knight of Xeneron
7 The Quest for Walonon
8 The Albino Hunter's Son
9 The Equilibrium Lost
10 Gallery
The Pearl in the Skull[]
In a future post-nuclear holocaust Earth, higher technology has ceased functioning, and the world has regressed to a medieval state dominated by kingdoms of sword and sorcery. The former Great Britain has become the Bloody Tyranny of Albion, ruled by the immortal Emperor King Septimus of Elthur and his Beast Men.
After a failed rebellion against the Bloody Tyranny in Seehaven province, Duke Cedric Shadowbane is captured. Baron Brutus agrees to free him if he captures Aveline, daughter of Lord Guardian of the Hegoth Herzog Steel, for him. The Tyranny embeds the Dark Pearl in Cedric's forehead, which will relay his sight to Elthur and eat his brain if he betrays them. Herzog Steel turns him by helping him contain the jewel's life force, but only the sorcerer Jaabamas of Hasiyah can make the reprieve permanent. Shadowbane is instrumental in repelling Brutus's attack on Hegoth, and Aveline pledges her love to him.
Shadowbane is joined by the half-giant archer Ermenrich in his quest for Jaabamas. A few months later, they are saved from a Albion attack by the Fighter in Strange Armor. He accompanies them to Hasiyah, whose Queen Yasmininara was ousted by her brother who is in league with the Bloody Tyranny. After helping Yasmininara and her rebels retake the city, Jaabamas is finally persuaded to draw out the Dark Pearl's life force. The Fighter in Strange Armor informs Shadowbane that he is a servant of the Arcane Scepter. Yasmininara offers to make Shadowbane her king, but he turns her down, and he and Ermenrich return to Aveline.
The Deranged Deity's Pendant[]
When renegade Frenchman Bernwan Shogwain attempts to destroy the wraiths of the deserted city of Sabahesmaat, they are saved by Shadowbane and Ermenrich, who capture Shogwain. In gratitude, the wraiths give Cedric a dimension-warping device that can save Steel Fortress. Shadowbane and Ermenrich are joined by their former enemy Shogwain in rescuing Aveline from the Muskovian Cult of the Deranged Deity. Shadowbane frees Aveline from the hypnotic spell of the Deranged Deity Stalnikov, slays him in combat, and takes his Glowing Pendant.
The Deranged Deity's Pendant drives most people mad with power, but after much convincing, Shadowbane uses the amulet to control the Deranged Deity's Beasts long enough for his party to escape the Beast Men on the jaguars' chariot. The Fighter in Strange Armor becomes separated from them in his attempt to retrieve the wraiths' machine from the mounts they were forced to abandon. Fortunately, the Warrior succeeds in bringing the device to Steel Fortress in time and activates it, saving the people of Hegoth and Steel Fortress from the Bloody Tyranny's conquest of the rest of Europe.
The Axe of the Moon[]
Shadowbane captures Elvereza Tozer, an intruder whose rings have the power to shift their wearers between dimensions. Shadowbane and Shogwain use the rings to travel back to the Bloody Tyranny and find their creator, Brynden of Marthon, before the Tyranny can use his technology to breach Steel Fortress.
They infiltrate the Court of Albion by posing as eastern ambassadors. King-Emperor Septimus's only living relative, Countess Rowena Haraldsdottir, sees through their disguises. But she and Shogwain fall in love, so she gives the pair her Mechanical Bird to travel to Marthon. There, Baron Brutus fatally wounds Brynden, but they escape him when Brynden transports himself, Shadowbane, and Shogwain to Orkanis. In his dying moments, Brynden, who was a knowing servant of the Arcane Scepter, gives them his rings and tells Cedric to seek the Axe of the Moon in Yarlar and then the Arcane Scepter in Sayen.
Shadowbane and Shogwain travel to Yarlar, where Bryson Aiden aids them in traveling to Weston to retrieve the Axe of the Moon from the Pirate Lords. The pirates capture and nearly sacrifice the three, but the Fighter in Strange Armor frees them. Cedric retrieves the sword and uses it to summon the ghostly Horde of the Moon from within the sword, who defeat the pirates. Then instead of heeding Brynden and The Fighter in Strange Armor by questing for the Arcane Scepter in Sayen, Shadowbane tells Shogwain they're headed back to Europe to Steel Fortress to see Aveline.
The Arcane Scepter[]
Shadowbane's attempt to return to his loved ones is thwarted when sea creatures crash their boat on an island. The Fighter in Strange Armor's Orkneyman "brother" Zebulon Friar gives Shadowbane and Shogwain a new boat with which to sail to Sayen to retrieve the Arcane Scepter, whose spirit appears to them in the child-like form of Friar's "son", Grimeinarr Aegskar. Conspiring with Baron Bronn, Countess Rowena, and his brother-in-law Uthrik, Baron Brutus betrays and murders King-Emperor Septimus and installs Rowena as Empress of the Bloody Tyranny of Albion.
After retrieving the Arcane Scepter, Shadowbane and the company of the Arcane Scepter go into battle with the Beast Men led by Baron Brutus. By the time Cedric slays Brutus, only he and Aveline, who is pregnant with Shadowbane's child, have survived the final battle. Grieving her lover Shogwain's death, Empress Rowena ends the war and has Baron Bronn remove the Dark Pearl from Cedric's head.
Herzog Steel[]
Shadowbane and Aveline have a daughter, Brienne, and a son, Wolfbold, who resembles the late Herzog Steel. But the Count's ghost starts appearing to Cedric in the marshes, leading him to the laboratory of Baron Bronn. Bronn and Uthrik have imprisoned Cedric's late allies, whom they plucked from points in time before they died, as part of a scheme they concocted to restore the Bloody Tyranny of Albion. They flee, so Shadowbane and Herzog Steel go to Rinal of the Wraith-folk of Sabahesmaat, who gives them the means to follow them.
Herzog Steel kills Uthrik and bisects his clock mask, but in doing so, he causes the Time Wind to send Cedric back in time to the final battle against Albion. As a consequence, he unintentionally alters history so that Herzog Steel survived instead of Aveline. Cedric returns to a present where everyone believes his previous version of history was just a mad delusion, and he finds he cannot remember his children's names.
The Knight of Xeneron[]
With the help of Alfwin Ulrichschmidt, Shadowbane temporarily lent his soul to the Immortal Knight Lyanna of Xeneron, whose own soul had been stolen by Baron Bronn, until she slays Bronn and returns their souls. In doing so, Aveline, who aided Lyanna in her defense of Xeneron, was reunited with Cedric.
The Quest for Walonon[]
Again aided by Alfwin Ulrichschmidt, Shadowbane meets with the Fighter in Strange Armor, Lord Sepiriz, Abaris the Magi, Lamsar the Hermit, Aleryon of the Temple of Principle, Amergin the Archdruid, and the Lady of the Chalice, who tell him he will find his lost children in Walonon. Shadowbane then finds himself alone on a shore, where Brut of Lashmar helps Cedric board the Dark Ship on their shared Quest for Walonon. He and his fellow passengers, Winhardt of Drakemane, Corum Jhaelen Irsei, and Ingvar, lead a team of warriors against the twin alien sorcerers Agak and Gagak at "a broken dream of Walonon" to stop them from absorbing the Metagalaxy.
After most of their team perishes in an assault within Gagak's fortress-like body, the four Knights slay her and merge her body with theirs to become the Four-Who-Are-One, a massive, many-limbed, four-faced Immortal Knight. In this invincible new form, they slay Agak, then unjoin and burn the twins' bodies. Corum, Winhardt, and Otto Blendker return to the Dark Ship while Shadowbane, Erekose, and Brut of Lashmar remain to reach Walonon.
The Lost Gods depart the Metagalaxy following their aid of Corum in slaying the Lords of the Higher Worlds. Grimeinarr Aegskar and Sword, the spirits of the Arcane Scepter and the Cursed Sword, respectively, are the only god-like entities who remain. They meet Shadowbane and Ingvar in Walonon, where Alfwin appears and gives Shadowbane the Dark Pearl. In return for the Dark Pearl, Sword releases his hostages to them, Shadowbane's family and friends and Ingvar's long-lost love Ermizhad, all of whom Sword retrieved from Limbo. The spirits then prompt the two champions into a final clash for the fate of the Equilibrium on their behalves.
Sword enters the Dark Pearl while Grimeinarr enters the Arcane Scepter. The warriors destroy both objects in the battle, freeing them from the Cosmic Equilibrium forever, but Ingvar perishes with them. He, Ermizhad, and Alfwin become statues, joining those of countless other Immortal Knights, Companions, and Consorts in Walonon. Zebulon Friar gives Alfwin's winged cat Whiskers to Shadowbane's daughter Brienne. Grateful for his "son" Grimeinarr finally achieving peace, Friar elects to stay in Walonon, as do Emshon of Ariso, John ap-Rhyss, and Brut of Lashmar. Bernwan Shogwain returns to Countess Rowena, while Ermenrich, Willibald, Shadowbane, Aveline, Brienne, and Wolfbold return to Steel Fortress, where the children would meet their grandfather, Herzog Steel.
The Albino Hunter's Son[]
In an alternate timeline, a version of Shadowbane didn't use the Glowing Pendant, and misfortune befell him and his party as a consequence. He eventually engaged in a battle with an Ingvar in Walonon for the fate of the Equilibrium similar to the one in The Quest for Walonon. Winhardt's family on a modern-day Earth distracted him so that the two warriors killed each other instead of the spirits of the Equilibrium, ensuring a version of the Cosmic Equilibrium would endure. To ensure the defeat of his reality's Bloody Tyranny, Oswald Bastable bombs Elthur.
The Equilibrium Lost[]
In Winhardt: The Equilibrium Lost, Whiskers informed Brienne of the resurgence of the Order of the Fly. She related this to Shadowbane, prompting him and Huilliam Shogwain to travel to Yarlar to stop them, which they only achieved by aiding their fellow Immortal Knights and Companions in restoring the Cosmic Equilibrium. After they did so, Whiskers watched Winhardt return Shadowbane to his family before departing on the Moonbeam Roads.
Gallery[]
Advertisement