Cursed Sword
Advertisement
Skip to content
The Cursed Sword is a cosmic archetype, able to exist in any universe in almost any form. It is the weapon of the Immortal Knight, but it is not always borne by him or her. As the name suggests, it most often takes the form of a massive black runesword. The Cursed Sword is alive, fully sentient and malevolent. It has a will of its own and will often disobey the wishes of its wielder.
The Cursed Sword devours the souls of its victims, and can even kill gods. It exists in the Higher Realms as creatures of Mayhem, and can partially manifest as black-bladed swords or other weapons (such as Jerry Cornelius' Needle Gun or the Banning Gun) on the material plane.
The Cursed Sword has been called by many names in its different manifestations across the Metagalaxy, including Suneater, Griever/Ravenbrand, Kanajana, the Cold Sword, the Dragon Sword, and Murakamo-No-Tsurugi (Japanese for Sword of the Gathering Clouds). The blade may not always manifest in the color black either, such as Corum Jhaelen Irsei's moon colored sword Traitor.
Though the Cursed Sword is a being of Mayhem, it seems to be an instrument of the Equilibrium, akin to the Arcane Scepter and the Horn of Fate. This is likely because in some cryptic way, the Cursed Sword and the Immortal Knight are one.
When called finally to name itself it said its name was, "Foe."
Lucifer has also claimed to be one with the Cursed Sword.
"Well. I can tell you now that Suneater's 'real' being is related to other supernatural forces on another plane. I know how to summon them, but these relations are also creatures of Mayhem and therefore, as far as you're concerned, somewhat hard to control. They could well get out of hand in some way— perhaps even turn against you. Suneater, as you have discovered in the past, is bound to you by ties even stronger than those which bind it to its brothers, but its brothers outnumber it and Suneater might not be able to protect you against them."
-Sepiriz, Suneater p. 87-88
Gallery[]
The Knight and the SwordGriever and SuneaterRavenbrandClen of Clen Gar wielding the Cursed SwordMurakamo-No-TsurugiThe possible true form of the Cursed SwordThe "Cursed Sword's Brothers"Winhardt with Suneater and GrieverThe Cursed Sword
Advertisement