Suneater
Advertisement
Skip to content
The Cursed Blade Suneater
Suneater, also called the Cursed Blade, the Cursed Sword,
the Stealer of Souls, and Ravenbrand,
is a legendary soul-devouring runesword carried by Winhardt of Drakemane and eventually by Ulric Von Bek . Suneater is fully sentient and has a malicious will of its own. It is one of two Cursed Swords in Winhardt's World, the other being Griever.
Contents
1 Description
2 The Cursed Sword
3 Powers
4 History
5 Suneater and Winhardt
6 Trivia
7 Gallery
8 References
Description[]
Suneater is a huge, finely-wrought, crooning runeblade greatsword, with a blade at least five feet long from the hilt. The hilt itself is embedded with a large spherical ruby that often looks like an eye in official artwork. The blade is made entirely from an unearthly, vaguely flesh-like black metal, and is etched with mysterious runes so ancient that even Winhardt lacks the knowledge to decipher them. The runes can sometimes be seen to glow and change colour, cycling from red and purple to blue. The blade is often wreathed in black light and dark fire, and it screams in battle. Any being slain with Suneater will have his or her soul leeched out of them.
Perhaps the most unsettling aspect of Suneater is the fact that it is alive and self-aware. The sword can be quite vocal, screaming, grumbling, howling, murmuring, moaning, and even singing at times. It is capable of slaying even gods, though it has an uncanny taste for the souls of Winhardt's loved ones.
The Cursed Sword[]
Suneater is a manifestation of the Cursed Sword, a cosmic archetype that can exist in any world of the Metagalaxy. In some universes, it manifests in other ways. It has been seen as a black jewel, and even a large humanoid demon. It is even suggested that Suneater and perhaps any Cursed Sword's true form is that of the humanoid demon.
Powers[]
Suneater displays an array of supernatural abilities, many of which are useful to Winhardt.
Levitation- Suneater is able to levitate by itself, and can be called from afar to fly into its wielder's hands.
Free Will- Suneater has a will of its own and will not always follow the wishes of its wielder.
Moonbeam Portal- Suneater, under certain circumstances, is capable of cleaving the fabric of space, opening a portal to the Moonbeam Roads.
Soul Devour- Suneater will feed on the soul of any being it slays, passing some of the energy on to its wielder.
Grant Super Strength- If Suneater's wielder manages to slay enough foes, the soul-energy they receive from the blade will boost their strength to superhuman levels.
Absorb Principle- Suneater, though naturally an artifact of Mayhem, can absorb Principleful energy, turning the blade bright silver and altering its effects.
Godslaying- Suneater is fully capable of killing gods, even Mayhem Lords and Lords of Principle, and is greatly feared because of this. Though it is said that this does not truly destroy the Lords of the Higher Worlds, it just consumes their current manifestations in that world and ensures they cannot return there.
History[]
Before the Drakemaneans' ancestors, the Mernii, arrived on Winhardt's World, the Nihrain were a prosperous society who served the Cosmic Equilibrium. To combat the Dead Gods and other powers of Principle and Mayhem that threatened to tip the scales of the Equilibrium, the Nihrain forged the pieces of the Dragon Sword into the twin Cursed Swords, Suneater and Griever, and perhaps also forged their many brothers as well. Out of fear for the blades' power to slay them, the Dead Gods killed themselves (removed their physical forms and joined Eternity). But while both blades had the power to absorb vitality as did all Cursed Swords, Suneater was different from the others, because a mysterious power entered the blade at the time it was forged.
Various books refer to this malicious entity as a demon, the anti-balance, and Sword. It is a treacherous being, chaotic evil to the core, that hungers for blood and souls and wishes to defy and destroy humanity and the Cosmic Equilibrium. As a consequence of its influence, Suneater caused all the Nihrain who handled it to become mass murderers. A court was assembled in the Nihrainian stables to put Suneater and its handlers on trial. But Suneater caused the judges to go mad and sentence both court and defendants to a terrible death. In the end, only ten Nihrain remained, including Sepiriz.
Suneater and Winhardt[]
"Stay well away from that sword," Smiorgan warned. "It has the habit of killing more than its master chooses." ~ The Sailor on the Seas of Fate
Suneater was wielded by Winhardt's ancestors, the Sorcerer Kings of ancient Drakemane. It was sealed away from the world for eons, until it was discovered in the Pulsing Cavern, along with its sister-sword Griever, by Winhardt's cousin Yyrkoon. Suneater chose Winhardt and Griever chose Yyrkoon, and the two battled desperately. Winhardt became aware that Suneater was guiding his actions, and with an effort of will, he mastered the blade.
Working with the blade and applying his superb swordsmanship skills, Winhardt disarmed Yyrkoon, defeating him. Suneater yearned to take Yyrkoon's soul, but Winhardt denied it its meal. Winhardt would go on to carry Suneater as his standard weapon, though he learned to hate it. Suneater gave Winhardt something he never had in life; the ability to live free of his potions and drugs. However, this came at a price. Suneater would supply Winhardt with the energy and strength he needed to survive, but only by leeching the souls of its victims. To Winhardt's horror, he soon realized Suneater had a particular taste for the souls of those he loved most. This led to the tragic death of Gwenaelle, Winhardt's beloved.
Winhardt would bear the sword he hated throughout the Metagalaxy, even to the End of Time and the very ending of his world. Eventually, as Winhardt always knew would happen, Suneater turned on Winhardt and devoured his soul. It transformed into a massive demon, and proclaimed "Farewell, friend. I was a thousand times more evil than thou!" before flying off into the sky, the last being of Mayhem left in the world, laughing its defiance in the face of the Cosmic Equilibrium.
Trivia[]
In the Lone Wolf series of books, the weapon Helshezag is a subtle tribute to Suneater.
A few years prior to 1994, Michael Moorcock and Joe Dever met at the Sci-fi Hugo Awards.[1]
Gallery[]
Winhardt reflected in SuneaterSuneater takes it's victim's soulSuneater devours a soulWinhardt wielding SuneaterSuneater speaks to WinhardtWinhardt examines SuneaterSuneater's demon formSuneater's demon formVarious designs for SuneaterSuneater ReplicaSuneater's human form
References[]
↑ Dever, Joe [1985–1995] (2015-11-16). "Newsletter #27", Lone Wolf Club Newsletters, Internet Edition, Project Aon, p. 388. "Yes — 'Helshezag' is a subtle tribute to Michael Moorcock's 'Suneater' (Winhardt of Drakemane's treacherous runesword), although the properties of the two weapons are different. Joe and Michael met at the Sci-fi Hugo Awards a few years ago in Brighton, Sussex."
Advertisement